(1)   1) Confirmation on your selected projects for (COSC 470 / COSC 471 – need to finalize your project and schedule your first meeting with your customer / client.

(2)   2) Team organization change – finalize your team organization and roles assignment (read team roles in COSC 4070/471 project document)

(3)   3)  Github installation and tutorial exercise.

                You will be using GitHub or bitBucket (Atlassian, pending on installation) for your project software version control. 

(4)    4) Create a project repository on the remote site (github.com). Each team member can perform cloning, branching, fetch (poll),  commit, push, merge, and diff  that are essential for SVC operations


Assignment  3  Software version control (SVC) setup (GitHub or BitBucket), Project Selection, Team organization.
Objectives:
	The purposes of this lab/assignment are
(1)Confirmation on your selected projects for (COSC 470 / COSC 471 – need to finalize your project and schedule your first meeting with your customer / client.
(2)Team organization change – finalize your team organization and roles assignment (read team roles in COSC 4070/471 project document)
(3)Github installation and tutorial exercise.
	You will be using GitHub or bitBucket (Atlassian, pending on installation) for your project software version control.  
(4)Able to create a project repository on the remote site (github.com). Each team member can perform cloning, branching, fetch (poll),  commit, push, merge, and diff  that are essential for SVC operations
Procedure:
1.Review the project statement from last week.  I would like to join and listen to your team discussion
2.Review you team organization structure and define your roles and responsibilities for next short while (before the start of sprint 1). The team (self-organized) can modify (if needed) the roles later after sprint 0.
3.Have a draft schedule for sprint 0, 1, and 2 with some key goals. Each sprint duration is  fixed to 2 weeks.
4.GitHub installation and Tutorial (www.github.com). 

Any of the following sites can you started with installing GitHub and get you started with GitHub.

https://www.udemy.com/git-started-with-github/learn/v4/overview  ( this one is FREE)

http://www.thewindowsclub.com/github-tutorial ( published by Microsoft that has its own version of SVC – the TFS (Team Foundation Service) but recognize the popularity of GitHub.

Top 10 Git Tutorials for Beginners:
http://sixrevisions.com/resources/git-tutorials-beginners/



After your GitHub installation and tutorial, do the following:
(1)Create a project (Mock project) and deposit a number of files (3)  into the project repository (in gitHub remote site)
(2)Discuss among yourselves which files that you would like to use to excise the operation of fetch, push, merge, “official” main branch, and how to create public clone of the project.
(3)Decide who will be the integration manager who is most familiar with GitHub and responsible for be the caretaker of the project build tree (see page 152 of Git Pro)
You need to add me (GitHub user name = forsure9 ) to your project.   

There isn’t any shortage of great tutorials and online resources for getting started with Git. Below is a list of other Git resources for beginners. If you know of a good Git tutorial that isn’t listed, please share it.


Deliverables of Assignment3 ( for everyone)
(1)Summary of your team discussion on the projects selected.  What will be your main contributions or what you would like to learn from working with this team and project?
(2)An updated version of problem statement for the project – based on feedbacks  from customer, professor, team discussions, others.  Note the project needs to be complex with enough uncertainties for 5 people to do it in 6 months (Oct 2016 to March, 2017)
(3)Based on your Burndown chart (BDC) from your Mock project, describe problems that your team may encounter from the SBL preparation during sprint planning to the sprint release. How will you handle them in your next sprint? 
(4)Generate a Git Log of one or more file that show the team contribution and merging activities 

GitHub Resource
You can download GitHub in www.github.com with tutorial
Pro Git is a free online book by Scott Chacon. (see moodle or .piazza.com resource)
Top 10 Git Tutorials: 
	http://sixrevisions.com/resources/git-tutorials-beginners/
Other Great Git Resources:


Getting started with GitHub on Windows 8. Published by Microsoft that uses TFS (Team Foundation Service) for the SVC, It has a pretty good write up on sing-in to github.com and creating a new account (if you don’t already have one) 
Git Tutorial: How to Version Projects with Git: This is a beginner-level Git tutorial that includes installation instructions.
Introduction To Git: Check out this screencast on GitHub that introduces basic Git concepts.
How to Install Git: This is a Stack Exchange answer that covers how to install Git on Windows, Mac OS X and Linux.
Everyday GIT With 20 Commands Or So: Here, you can learn Git basics through the most common commands (with examples of how to use the commands in real-world scenarios).
Starting with Git: Cheat Sheet: A quick introduction to Git that discusses fundamental activities such as committing to the repository and adding files for version tracking.
Getting Started with Git: This 6-page cheat-sheet-style Git tutorial from technology publishing company Dzone is available as a PDF that you can print.
gittutorial Manual Page: This Git tutorial is an official man page in the Git package.
Git for the lazy: This guide will get you up and running on Git as quickly as possible.
git ready: This resource collects quick Git tips categorized by level of difficulty (beginner, intermediate and advanced).
Git_Guide: This FAQ-style Git guide covers the most popular topics for beginners.
Introductory Guide to Git Version Control System: This guide here on Six Revisions is a quick-start resource for familiarizing yourself with Git.
An Illustrated Guide to Git on Windows: A wonderful tutorial on installing and using Git on Windows (using mysysgit, a GUI for Git).
Getting Started with Git and GitHub on Windows: A guide for Windows users covering how to use Git with the popular social coding site GitHub.
A Tour of Git: The Basics: A walkthrough of Git to get you started through a hands-on approach.
Getting the Hang of GitHub: If you’re interested in Git, chances are, it’s because of GitHub. Learn how to get up and running using GitHub through this guide.
Understanding Git Conceptually: This Git tutorial focuses on the fundamentals of how Git works.


